#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{txfonts}
\newcommand{\secsym}\S
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single 
\papersize letterpaper
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

User Guide
\layout Author

Dan Bikel
\layout Date

September 17th, 2003
\layout Date


\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents{}

\end_inset 


\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 

\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:preliminaries}

\end_inset 

Preliminaries
\layout Subsection

The right 
\family typewriter 
java
\layout Standard

In theory, the parsing engine software works with any Java2 JVM as of v1.3.x
 and higher.
 In practice, I have only tested it with JVM's from IBM and Sun (I typically
 use Sun's).
 To use the provided shell scripts to train and run the parser, there is
 no need to set any environment variables; just make sure a 
\family typewriter 
java
\family default 
 executable for an appropriate version is in your path.
 To determine this, when you execute the command
\layout LyX-Code

java -version
\layout Standard

you should see a long string that indicates a version of 1.3.x, or preferably
 1.4.x.
 
\layout Subsection

Settings files
\layout Standard

The parser comes with several, crucial settings files, all located in the
\layout LyX-Code

<parser home>/settings
\layout Standard

directory.
 A given training or parsing run needs only a single settings file, which
 determines, among other things, which language the parser will work in.
 
\layout Subsection

Scripts
\layout Standard

The distribution comes with several shell scripts, all of which are hard-coded
 to use 
\family typewriter 
/bin/tcsh
\family default 
.
 You may need to modify this if 
\family typewriter 
tcsh
\family default 
 lives in a different place in your environment.
 As we do not yet use a true installation scheme (such as 
\family typewriter 
autoconf
\family default 
/
\family typewriter 
configure
\family default 
), you must make any modifications by hand.
 This may change in the near future.
\layout Standard

Most of the provided scripts spit out their usage if they are run with no
 arguments.
\layout Subsection

File formats
\layout Standard

Most I/O of the parsing engine is performed by a Lisp-style S-expression
 reader/writer written entirely in Java.
 As such, newlines are generally irrelevant, being treated as just another
 form of whitespace.
 The one exception to this is a comment, which consists of a semicolon and
 anything after that semicolon character to the end of the line (just as
 in Lisp).
 
\layout Section

Quick Start
\layout Standard

This section assumes you have already read 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
secsym
\end_inset 


\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:preliminaries}

\end_inset 

 and just want to get going parsing English.
\layout Standard

If you want to parse English sentences using the engine in its 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Collins emulation mode
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, do the following,
\layout Itemize

where 
\family typewriter 
<dbparser home>
\family default 
 is the install directory created by the install script, and
\layout Itemize

where, if you have a copy of the Penn Treebank, 
\family typewriter 
<Penn Treebank home>
\family default 
 is the root directory of the Penn Treebank CD-ROM (or the directory to
 which the CD-ROM's hierarchy has been copied):
\layout Enumerate


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{enu:quick-start-train}

\end_inset 

Train the parser on Sections 02--21 of the WSJ Penn Treebank in one of the
 following two ways.
 One way assumes you have access to the Penn Treebank, while the other does
 not; both ways assume that 
\family typewriter 
<dbparser home>/bin
\family default 
 is in your path.
 The result of either way will be a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

derived data file
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 called 
\family typewriter 
wsj-02-21.obj.gz
\family default 
.
\begin_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

If you have access to the Penn Treebank, execute the following commands
 to create the file
\family typewriter 

\newline 
/tmp/wsj-02-21.obj.gz
\family default 
:
\begin_deeper 
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
cd <Penn Treebank home>/combined/wsj
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
cat 0[2-9]/*.mrg 1[0-9]/*.mrg 2[01]/*.mrg > /tmp/wsj-02-21.mrg
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
train 800 <dbparser home>/settings/collins.properties 
\backslash 
 
\newline 
/tmp/wsj-02-21.mrg
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

If you do not have access to the Penn Treebank, do the following to create
 the file
\family typewriter 

\newline 
wsj-02-21.obj.gz
\family default 
:
\begin_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

Download the observed events file 
\family typewriter 
wsj-02-21.observed.gz
\family default 
 from Dan Bikel's homepage.
\layout Enumerate

Execute the command
\newline 

\family typewriter 
train-from-observed 400 <dbparser home>/settings/collins.properties 
\backslash 
 
\newline 
wsj-02-21.observed.gz
\end_deeper 
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

Copy the file 
\family typewriter 
wsj-02-21.obj.gz
\family default 
 created by Step 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{enu:quick-start-train}

\end_inset 

 to a safe place.
 You will use this file in the next step.
\layout Enumerate

To parse a file in the format specified in 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
secsym
\end_inset 


\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:uniproc-parsing}

\end_inset 

, execute the following command (use 
\family typewriter 
<dbparser home>/bin/parse
\family default 
 if 
\family typewriter 
<dbparser home>/bin
\family default 
 is not in your path):
\newline 

\family typewriter 
parse 400 <dbparser home>/settings/collins.properties wsj-02-21.obj.gz 
\backslash 

\newline 
<input file>
\layout Section

Training
\layout Standard

An input file for the trainer must be in the de facto standard format of
 Penn Treebank 
\family typewriter 
.mrg
\family default 
 files, which contain trees with part-of-speech tag preterminals and words
 as leaves.
 The original Penn Treebank enclosed sentences in an extra set of parentheses;
 the trainer disregards these parens, if they are present.
\layout Standard

The easiest way to use the trainer is via the script 
\family typewriter 
<parser home>/bin/train
\family default 
, which has the following usage:
\layout LyX-Code

train <max.
 heap size in megabytes> <settings file> 
\backslash 

\newline 
        <parse tree input file>
\layout Standard

Note that all training trees are expected to be in one file.
\layout Standard

Training is, for the most part, performed in-memory.
 This means the heap size for training needs to be rather large; a value
 in the range of 500-800 is generally required, but this value depends greatly
 on the number of sentence being fed to the trainer.
 (The working set is much smaller than the maximum heap size, however.)
\layout Standard

However, in order to reduce the required memory, the user may use the 
\family typewriter 
danbikel.parser.Trainer
\family default 
 class with the new 
\family typewriter 
-it
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
--incremental-training
\family default 
 options, which allow the trainer to read an observations file (output from
 a previous training run) in 500,000-event chunks, deriving counts after
 each reading each chunk (chunk size is controlled via the setting 
\family typewriter 
parser.trainer.maxEventChunkSize
\family default 
).
 This prevents the trainer from reading the entire observations file into
 memory before deriving counts.
 Type
\layout LyX-Code

java danbikel.parser.Trainer -help
\layout Standard

for complete usage information.
 
\layout Subsection*

Example
\layout Standard

To train on a file 
\family typewriter 
wsj-02-21.mrg
\family default 
 containing Section 02--21 of the WSJ Penn Treebank data, one would issue
 the command
\layout LyX-Code

train 800 <parser home>/settings/collins.properties 
\backslash 

\newline 
        wsj-02-21.mrg
\layout Standard

The train script spits out the actual 
\family typewriter 
java
\family default 
 command that is doing the training.
\layout Standard

The trainer outputs two files: an 
\family typewriter 
.observed.gz
\family default 
 file, containing (a compressed stream of) human-readable, top-level event
 counts that were derived rather directly from the training trees, and an
 
\family typewriter 
.obj.gz
\family default 
 file, which is a series of serialized Java objects containing the actual,
 derived counts used by the parser.
 The 
\family typewriter 
.observed.gz
\family default 
 file is called the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

observations file
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 and the 
\family typewriter 
.obj.gz
\family default 
 file is called 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

derived data file
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, and is the main output file of the trainer.
\layout Section

Parsing
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:uniproc-parsing}

\end_inset 

Uniprocessor or non--distributed computing environment
\layout Standard

The easiest way to parse in a non-distributed fashion is to use the 
\family typewriter 
<parser\SpecialChar ~
home>/bin/parse
\family default 
 script, the usage of which is:
\layout LyX-Code

parse <max.
 heap> <settings> <derived data file> 
\backslash 

\newline 
      <input file>
\layout Standard

The parser does not need as much memory as the trainer; for English, a value
 less than or equal to 
\family typewriter 
500
\family default 
 for 
\family typewriter 
<max.\SpecialChar ~
heap>
\family default 
 should suffice.
\layout Standard

The input file should have one of two Lisp-style formats:
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
((word1 (pos1)) (word2 (pos2)) \SpecialChar \ldots{}
 (wordN (posN)))
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
(word1 word2 ...
 wordN)
\layout Standard

Format 1 is typically used, where each part of speech was that produced
 by some (possibly automatic) tagging program.
\layout Standard

Format 2 is used when it is desirable to have the parser do all its own
 part of speech tagging as part of the parsing process, but all the provided
 settings files assume that tagging will be performed as a pre-processing
 step.
\layout Standard

A part of speech that is supplied for a word is only used when that word
 was never observed in training; nevertheless, 
\emph on 
every
\emph default 
 word must have a non-empty part of speech list; 
\emph on 
i.e.
\emph default 
, the format 
\family typewriter 
((word1 ()) (word2 ()) \SpecialChar \ldots{}
 (wordN ()))
\family default 
 is 
\emph on 
not
\emph default 
 valid.
\layout Standard

Here is the first sentence of Section 00 of the WSJ Penn Treebank in Format\SpecialChar ~
1:
\layout LyX-Code

((Pierre (NNP)) (Vinken (NNP)) (, (,)) (61 (CD))
\newline 
 (years (NNS)) (old (JJ)) (, (,)) (will (MD)) (join (VB))
\newline 
 (the (DT)) (board (NN)) (as (IN)) (a (DT))
\newline 
 (nonexecutive (JJ)) (director (NN)) (Nov.
 (NNP))
\newline 
 (29 (CD)) (.
 (.)))
\layout Subsection

Distributed computing environment
\layout Subsubsection

Script usage
\layout Standard

The easiest way to parse in a distributed-computing environment is to use
 the
\family typewriter 

\newline 
<parser home>/bin/internal-server-run
\family default 
 script.
 The usage is:
\layout LyX-Code

internal-server-run <settings file> <derived data file> 
\backslash 

\newline 
        <input file>+
\layout Standard

Note that you can specify multiple input files.
 In fact, if any of the input files specified is a directory, the engine
 will non-recursively get the names of all files contained the directory.
 For example, suppose you have the following four files to parse:
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
~/data/inputFile1
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
~/data/inputFile2
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
~/data/new/newFile1
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
~/data/new/newFile2
\layout Standard

The following three input file lists are all treated the same by the 
\family typewriter 
internal-server-run
\family default 
 script (it's really the Java class 
\family typewriter 
danbikel.parser.StartSwitchboard
\family default 
 that is performing this magic):
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
~/data/inputFile1 ~/data/inputFile2 ~/data/new/newFile1 ~/data/new/newFile2
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
~/data/inputFile1 ~/data/inputFile2 ~/data/new
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
~/data ~/data/new
\layout Standard

While this script makes using multiple hosts easy, it may not work out-of-the-bo
x, requiring a few caveats:
\layout Enumerate

The script uses the environment variable 
\family typewriter 
JAVA_HOME
\family default 
 to locate the J2SDK you wish to use, so you must make sure this variable
 is set in your environment.
 The two J2SDK executables that are used are 
\family typewriter 
$JAVA_HOME/bin/java
\family default 
 (by the 
\family typewriter 
internal-server-run
\family default 
 script) and 
\family typewriter 
$JAVA_HOME/bin/rmiregistry
\family default 
 (by the 
\family typewriter 
no-cp-rmiregistry
\family default 
 script, which is called by the 
\family typewriter 
start-rmiregistry
\family default 
 script, which is in turn called by the 
\family typewriter 
internal-server-run
\family default 
 script).
\layout Enumerate


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{enu:reliance-on-dollar-zero}

\end_inset 

Most batch queues copy a batch script before executing it, which breaks
 any reliance on the 
\family typewriter 
$0
\family default 
 variable.
 Accordingly, you may have to modify the script to hard-code paths for the
 
\family typewriter 
scriptDir
\family default 
 variable (near the beginning of the script).
 Alternatively, you can use the simple wrapper script (called, conveniently
 enough, 
\family typewriter 
wrapper
\family default 
) to avoid this problem.
\layout Enumerate

The script uses 
\family typewriter 
ssh
\family default 
 for logging into nodes, and assumes that it will not need to enter a password
 for doing so.
 The remote shell mechanism of the 
\family typewriter 
internal-server-run
\family default 
 script, as well as that of a dependent script called 
\family typewriter 
start-rmiregistry
\family default 
, may be changed by altering the definition of the 
\family typewriter 
RSH
\family default 
 variable.
\layout Enumerate

The script assumes the nodes will be provided via whitespace-separated list
 in a 
\family typewriter 
NODES
\family default 
 environment variable, and preprends 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

node
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 to every element in this list (appropriate for Clubmask/Beowulf environment
 at Penn).
 Please comment out the shell script code that does the prepending if this
 behavior is not appropriate for your environment.
\layout Enumerate

The script relies on other scripts in its 
\family typewriter 
bin
\family default 
 directory, and expects the file 
\family typewriter 
dbparser.jar
\family default 
 to be located in its parent directory.
 The script finds these relatively-located resources by using the 
\family typewriter 
$0
\family default 
 variable (see point No.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{enu:reliance-on-dollar-zero}

\end_inset 

, above).
\layout Enumerate

When the reap variable is defined, there is a section of code at the end
 of the script that logs onto all hosts and uses the 
\family typewriter 
killall
\family default 
 command to kill all 
\family typewriter 
rmiregistry
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
java
\family default 
 processes; this behavior may literally be overkill for your environment,
 if, for example, you have other, non-parsing 
\family typewriter 
java
\family default 
 processes that you do not wish to kill.
 The solution is to comment-out the line in the script reading 
\family typewriter 
set reap
\family default 
, or to modify the reaping code to be more discriminating in the processes
 that it kills.
\layout Standard

In the future, we may customize the 
\family typewriter 
internal-server-run
\family default 
 script via an installation procedure, instead of forcing you, the user,
 to perform the customizations directly.
\layout Subsubsection

Experiment directory
\layout Standard

The script creates an experiment directory whose name is 
\family typewriter 
~/experiments/<date>/<time>
\layout Standard

The experiment directory will contain the following items:
\layout Enumerate

Log files for all the parsing clients, where each log file has the name
 
\family typewriter 
<host>-<uid>.log
\family default 
, where 
\family typewriter 
<host>
\family default 
 is the host name on which the client is running and where 
\family typewriter 
<uid>
\family default 
 is a unique integer, so that two clients running on the same host will
 have differently-named log files.
\layout Enumerate


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{enu:exp-dir-log}

\end_inset 

A log file containing the incremental work of the distributed-computing
 run; this file has the same name as the input file plus a 
\family typewriter 
.log
\family default 
 extension.
\layout Enumerate

A file called switchboard.messages, which can be monitored to track the progress
 of the distributed-computing run, via the command 
\family typewriter 
tail -f switchboard.messages
\layout Enumerate

Finally, the 
\family typewriter 
internal-server-run
\family default 
 script copies a specialized version of 
\emph on 
itself
\emph default 
 to the experiment directory, in order to facilitate re-running the experiment,
 or continuing an experiment that had to be killed before all input sentences
 were parsed.
 This latter feature---being able to recover from a previous, incomplete
 run---can be very useful.
 Crucially, the ability to re-start an experiment from where it left off
 makes use of the log file that contains incremental work (list item No.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{enu:exp-dir-log}

\end_inset 

, above).
 
\layout Section

Advanced usage
\layout Standard

It is, of course, possible to call the 
\family typewriter 
java
\family default 
 process directly for training and parsing.
 The normal mechanism to specify a settings file is to provide a command-line
 definition of the 
\family typewriter 
parser.settingsFile
\family default 
 system property, as follows:
\layout LyX-Code

java -Dparser.settingsFile=collins.properties ...
\layout Standard

To avoid specifying the settings file on the command line, you can provide
 a default settings file: the parsing engine will always check to see if
 the file 
\family typewriter 
~/.db-parser/settings
\family default 
 exists (where 
\family typewriter 
~
\family default 
 is your home directory), and if so, use it if there is no definition of
 the 
\family typewriter 
parser.settingsFile
\family default 
 system property.
 For example, if by default you will be parsing English with the parser
 in its Collins-emulation mode, you can execute the following commands:
\layout LyX-Code

mkdir ~/.db-parser
\layout LyX-Code

cp <parser home>/settings/collins.properties ~/.db-parser/settings
\layout Subsection

Training
\layout Standard

The Java class used for training is 
\family typewriter 
danbikel.parser.Trainer
\family default 
.
 A typical usage is as follows (assumes you have 
\family typewriter 
dbparser.jar
\family default 
 in your class path):
\layout LyX-Code

java -Xms800m -Xmx800m -Dparser.settingsFile=<settings> 
\backslash 

\newline 
        danbikel.parser.Trainer -i <training file> 
\backslash 

\newline 
        -o <observed file> -od <derived data file>
\layout Standard

You can see its full usage by executing
\layout LyX-Code

java danbikel.parser.Trainer -help
\layout Standard

If either 
\family typewriter 
<observed file>
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
<derived data file>
\family default 
 ends with the extension 
\family typewriter 
.gz
\family default 
 it is automatically compressed before being written to disk.
\layout LyX-Code

\layout Subsection*

A note on the 
\family typewriter 
<observed file>
\layout Standard

The 
\family typewriter 
<observed file>
\family default 
 is a human-readable file consisting of the top-level events and counts
 from which all other events and counts may be derived.
 As such, training may be performed in two steps, outputting an 
\family typewriter 
<observed file>
\family default 
 and then reading that file in to produce a 
\family typewriter 
<derived data file>
\family default 
:
\layout LyX-Code

java -Xms400m -Xmx400m -Dparser.settingsFile=<settings> 
\backslash 

\newline 
        danbikel.parser.Trainer -i <training file> 
\backslash 

\newline 
        -o <observed file>
\newline 

\newline 
java -Xms400m -Xmx400m -Dparser.settingsFile=<settings> 
\backslash 

\newline 
        danbikel.parser.Trainer -it -l <observed file> 
\backslash 

\newline 
        -od <derived data file>
\layout Standard

Note the use of the 
\family typewriter 
-it
\family default 
 option in the second of the two commands.
 This indicates to derive counts incrementally from an 
\family typewriter 
<observed file>
\family default 
, and reduces the RAM footprint considerably (all the heap sizes in this
 section are applicable when training on the standard Penn Treebank WSJ
 training set, Sections 02--21).
\layout Standard

For the curious, incremental training is performed by iteratively reading
 top-level events and counts from the 
\family typewriter 
<observed file>
\family default 
 one 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

chunk
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 at a time, additively deriving events and counts after each such 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

chunk
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 read.
 The number of top-level events read in at each increment is determined
 via the
\layout LyX-Code

parser.trainer.maxEventChunkSize
\layout Standard

setting, the default value for which is 
\family typewriter 
500000
\family default 
.
\layout Subsection

Parsing
\layout Standard

The Java class used for parsing is 
\family typewriter 
danbikel.parser.Parser
\family default 
.
 A typical usage is as follows (assumes you have 
\family typewriter 
dbparser.jar
\family default 
 in your class path):
\layout LyX-Code

java -Xms400m -Xmx400m -Dparser.settingsFile=<settings> 
\backslash 

\newline 
        danbikel.parser.Parser -is <derived data file> 
\backslash 

\newline 
        -sa <sentence input file>
\layout Standard

You can see its full usage by executing
\layout LyX-Code

java danbikel.parser.Parser -help
\layout Standard

If 
\family typewriter 
<derived data file>
\family default 
 ends with the extenson 
\family typewriter 
.gz
\family default 
 it is automatically decompressed as it is read from disk.
\layout Subsection

Switchboard
\layout Standard

The Java class used for starting the switchboard, which is the central component
 in a distributed-computing run, is 
\family typewriter 
danbikel.parser.StartSwitchboard
\family default 
.
 You can see its full usage by executing
\layout LyX-Code

java danbikel.parser.StartSwitchboard -help
\layout Standard

Developer-level documentation is available in the 
\family typewriter 
<parser home>/doc
\family default 
 directory.
 Currently, not all methods and classes are documented.
 
\layout Subsection


\emph on 
k-
\emph default 
best Parsing
\layout Standard

As of version 0.9.4, there is a hack to do 
\emph on 
k
\emph default 
-best parsing, where basically dynamic programming is eliminated by having
 no two chart items be equivalent (thanks to Mike Collins for suggesting
 this hack).
 There are three settings one should adjust in order to do 
\emph on 
k
\emph default 
-best parsing:
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
parser.chart.itemClass=danbikel.parser.CKYItem$KBestHack
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
parser.decoder.kBest=
\family default 
\emph on 
k
\emph default 
 (where 
\emph on 
k
\emph default 
 is the desired maximum number of best parses to output)
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
parser.decoder.pruneFactor=
\family default 
<
\emph on 
something smaller than 4
\emph default 
> (you want to use a small beam to avoid pursuing too many theories---remember,
 we have simply turned off dynamic programming)
\layout Standard

The output of the parser is slightly different when 
\begin_inset Formula $k>1$
\end_inset 

: in this case, instead of an S-expression representing a tree, it is a
 list of S-expressions representing trees (a list of lists), in decreasing
 order of likelihood.
\layout Subsection

Knesser-Ney Smoothing
\layout Standard

The type of smoothing used is determined by the type of 
\family typewriter 
Model
\family default 
 object that a 
\family typewriter 
ProbabilityStructure
\family default 
 instance wraps itself in, as determined by the method 
\family typewriter 
ProbabilityStructure.newModel
\family default 
.
 The default behavior is to create an instance of 
\family typewriter 
Model
\family default 
, which uses a variant of Witten-Bell smoothing.
\layout Standard

However, this default behavior can be changed in a concrete subclass of
 
\family typewriter 
ProbabilityStructure
\family default 
 by overriding the 
\family typewriter 
newModel
\family default 
 method, or by simply using a run-time setting,
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
parser.probabilityStructure.defaultModelClass
\family default 
.
\layout Standard
\noindent 
The default value for this setting is 
\family typewriter 
danbikel.parser.Model
\family default 
, but Knesser-Ney smoothing can be used by default by changing this setting
 to be
\family typewriter 
 
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
danbikel.parser.InterpolatedKnesserNeyModel
\family default 
.
\layout Standard
\noindent 
For more information on this setting, see the documentation for the 
\family typewriter 
danbikel.parser.Settings
\family default 
 class.
\the_end
